[Music]
hello there good morning welcome to
breakfast with nagamonchetti and john
kay
our headlines today teachers will decide
their students
gcse and a-level results to avoid a
repeat
of last year's chaos we're putting our
trust in teachers
that's wherever trust is going there's
going to be no algorithms whatsoever
but there will be a very clear and
robust appeals mechanism
will the summer be a festival of fun
organizers of some large events say
they're confident
they will be back the elephant selfies
which could help wildlife and humans
live in harmony and protect
endangered species could a cash payout
be coming your way good morning the
company behind the computer chips that
make our smartphones work is accused of
overcharging 29 million of us could be
getting some money back
good morning yes it's 19 wins in a row
now for manchester city they have one
foot
in the quarterfinals of the champions
league and that keeps them on course for
an unprecedented quadruple
good morning yesterday was the warmest
day of this year so far with
temperatures in parts of eastern england
getting to just over 18 degrees not
quite that mild today but temperatures
still above average
a lot of dry weather but there are some
showers in the forecast and i'll tell
you where
in about 10 minutes
[Music]
good morning it's thursday the 25th of
february our top story teachers will
decide exam
grades this summer after the
cancellation of gcses and a-levels in
england
the exam's watchdog ofqual has confirmed
that schools can use a combination of
coursework
mock exams and essays to assess pupils
and the results are going to be
published earlier than usual in august
to allow time for appeals dan johnson
explains
[Music]
last year's calculated grades left some
students in limbo
unsure about university places and
unhappy with results
officials admitted were unfair the
algorithm used to standardize those
grades
is no more england's education secretary
said
he wanted those who know pupils best to
work out the result they deserve
we're putting our trust in teachers
that's wherever trust is going there's
going to be no algorithms whatsoever
but there will be a very clear and
robust appeals mechanism
instead teachers will have the option of
using questions from exam boards
alongside mock results and coursework as
well as essays and class
tests grades will be checked with other
teachers and by exam boards
before being awarded earlier than usual
all in the same week
of the 9th of august that will leave
more time for appeals
there's certainly more detail which
needs to come out in particular from the
examination boards we'll be expecting
some
guidance for teachers on how they arrive
at particular grades how they
differentiate between
one grade and another grade that's all
part of the training materials
but all of that can follow i think for
us to now know the direction of travel
we'll be reassuring
not just for teachers but in particular
for those students who worried that they
would be caught up
in the kind of results fiasco of last
year most vocational
and technical qualifications will be
worked out in the same way
but some students will have to sit exams
if they need to show they've reached a
professional standard in certain
occupations
the end of the algorithm could mean
grade inflation that's results rising
unrealistically year by year
but the department for education says
these teacher assessed grades
won't be used in school league tables
the hope is
they will fairly reflect what children
have achieved
dan johnson bbc news
so we'll get more detail on how it's all
going to work we're talking to the
school's minister nick gibb that's at
half past seven
a study has found that around 14 of
england's population has evidence of
antibodies
against the coronavirus more than 155
000 people were tested in the latest
react
survey conducted by researchers from
imperial college
london the study also found more
evidence that pfizer beyond tech vaccine
is producing a good antibody response
eu leaders are meeting online this
afternoon in a bid to speed up the
rollout of vaccines across
europe the vaccination rate there is
lagging significantly behind that
of the uk and the us and some eu
countries are now reporting a reluctance
to take the oxford astrazeneca vaccine
after france and germany made the
decision not to give it to older
patients
the golfer tiger woods will not face
criminal charges over the car crash that
left him with serious injuries he's
recovering in hospital from surgery to
repair his fractured
right leg and shattered ankle the los
angeles
county sheriff said the 15-time major
champion
will not face reckless driving charges
and that the crash was
purely an accident talks to try to
secure the future of the vauxhall car
plant in ellesmere port will continue
today
discussions between government officials
and company management have been taking
place
an announcement is expected within 48
hours
nearly 1 000 people work at the factory
in cheshire
many more obviously in the supply chain
elephants in a uk zoo could be helping
to save their relatives in the wild
as part of a new conservation project
the herd at whips and aid
zoo in bedfordshire have been posing for
thousands of
thermal images and they're going to be
used to help track and monitor elephant
populations
around the world do you know what an
elephant looks like when it poses
no what are you going to find out here's
our science correspondent helen briggs
gave me some insight then elephants
posing for photos
at whips made zoo but they look very
different through a thermal camera
thirty thousand selfies that are not
just incredible to look at
but a vital conservation tool it is
truly an elephant camp
it's made by elephants themselves
they've taken the photos with us
and it now works it can detect elephants
confidently at a certain distance
and we want to get this into the field
now and actually put it in the wild
helping wild elephants and communities
live side by side
the images are being used to train a
camera to recognize the shape of an
elephant from its body heat
it'll be able to identify when an
elephant's close by
even in the dark and send an alert
humans and elephants are being forced
into ever closer contact
as the human population grows and wild
habitat disappears
this can end in trashed crops damaged
property
and the loss of lives it's hoped the new
technology
will be an affordable solution to
helping wildlife
and humans live in harmony and help
protect endangered species helen briggs
bbc news now you know
they look just like you'd gotta expect
yeah
uh seven minutes past six the manchester
united striker marcus rashford has
picked up
yet another honor to hang alongside his
fa cup winners medal
and his mbe he's won a gold blue peter
badge
now that is a prize the manchester
united striker picked up the award for
his campaigning on behalf of children
from low-income families
the environmental activist greta
thundberg also got one
they're only given to a small number of
people each year in exceptional
circumstances thank you
very very much you are up alongside the
queen
beckham that is the level that we're
putting you at you know i appreciate it
greatly and
i'm happy that i was able to you know
spread positive messages
and i just want to give people the best
chance at being the best that they can
be
well done to him thumbs up indeed well
done marcus of course we've seen a lot
of him here on breakfast over the last
year his uh campaign
uh for school meals uh we were on it
right from the very beginning he spoke
to breakfast
exclusively to our own sally nugent and
he's kind of
been part of another award prize hasn't
he he has yes last night the interview
that sally did um
one scoop of the year at the royal
television society journalism awards
this is sally celebrating very of the
time
obviously glass of fizz cozy slippers on
the stairs
very proud well how else are you going
to do it exactly
we're all going to go out on a huge
night out eventually very proud of sally
we
also very proud of our producer claire
ryan and everyone involved in the store
involved in contact building and
following the story
and making sure that we could bring it
to you guys
good news families who spoke to us as
well spoke to sally as part of that
uh it's eight minutes past six
now are you suffering from a lack of a
good hairdresser at the moment hey i
tell you you've had a good choice i have
we had a home haircut yeah it's very
good
compliments to the quaffer yeah here is
a sheep
who was given a much needed trim after
he'd spent years wandering around the
austria oh my goodness
that's what my kitchen floor looked like
just after i'd been done that's
disgusting
um he was taken in by an animal
sanctuary near melbourne who sheared him
and found that his fleece weighed 35
kilos it's over five stone
staff there have nicknamed him bar rack
and say that he's now settling in well
with the other sheep
now what was this i didn't think the
sheep was disgusting your kitchen floor
i was saying
they're all over the kitchen but what i
would say is i thought they
naturally shed their own you know
their um coats because they would rub up
against bushes and stones and things
like that
you'd need a very big one at the point
five stones worth of
yeah the point he got to yeah he's okay
now
anyway he's okay light is a feather he's
feeling this morning
well done barack
see the headlines as they happen and
watch bbc news live in the app
and get the full story with bbc dot co
dot uk
forward slash news follow the story for
all the latest with bbc news